Dashboard specs (#286)
PrestaShop/prestashop-specs: content/1.7/back-office/dashboard/dashboard-configure.md

---
title: Dashboard Configure
weight: 1
---

# Dashboard configure

> When entered the configure page, there are 3 blocks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3 blocks are displayed on this page:
```

 - **Average bank fees per payment method**
 - **Average shipping fees per shipping method**
 - **Other settings**

## Demo mode

>  - **Demo mode**: This toggle allows to enable or disable fake data. By default, it is disabled. When enabled,  fake data are used. When disabled, the real store's data are used. The store's data are gathered by PrestaShop's statistics system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Demo mode**: This toggle allows to enable or disable fake data. By default, it is disabled. When enabled, fake data are used. When disabled, the real store's data are used. The store's data are gathered by PrestaShop's statistics system.
```

The following tooltip is displayed: "This mode displays sample data so you can try your dashboard without real numbers."

> ### Average bank fees per payment method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Average bank fees per payment method
```

> 4 Input fields are presented in this block, these are the default fields, if more payment methods are added to the shop, they will be displayed additionally here:

Reviewer: "if more payment methods are added to the shop, they will be displayed additionally here": I am not sure to understand this sentence. You mean if others payments modules are installed ?

On my side I have only 2 payments modules installed (Bank transfer and Payments by check). However, I have 4 fields for bank transfer and 4 for Payments by check

Author: @marionf I wasn't sure if I should add this, but if merchant has for example any other modules installed or new payment methods added, they would be shown here, I hope that makes sense now

> 4 Input fields are presented in this block, these are the default fields, if more payment methods are added to the shop, they will be displayed additionally here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4 default fields are displayed in this block, if more payment methods are added to the shop, they will be displayed additionally here:
```

>  - **Bank transfer** - a text below the field shows: "Choose a fixed fee for each order placed in USD% with Bank transfer." Only numbers are allowed in this field, on the right of this field the currecncy that is set on the shop is displayed. If the field input is invalid, when trying to save will show the following: "The Bank transfer field is invalid."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Bank transfer** - An help text is displayed : "Choose a fixed fee for each order placed in USD% with Bank transfer." Only numbers are allowed in this field. On the right of this field, the default currency (defined in International > Localization) is displayed. If the field is invalid and when trying to save, the following error message is displayed: "The Bank transfer field is invalid."
```

>  - **Bank transfer** - a text below the field shows: "Choose a variable fee for each order placed in USD% with Bank transfer. It will be applied on the total paid with taxes." Only numbers are allowed in this field, on the right of the field there is a percentage sign. If the field input is invalid, when trying to save will show the following: "The Bank transfer field is invalid.".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Bank transfer** - a text below the field shows: "Choose a variable fee for each order placed in USD% with Bank transfer. It will be applied on the total paid with taxes." Only numbers are allowed in this field. On the right of this field, a percentage sign is displayed. If the field is invalid and when trying to save, the following error message is displayed: "The Bank transfer field is invalid.".
```

>  - **Payments by check** - a text below the field shows: "Choose a fixed fee for each order placed in USD% with Payments by check.". Only numbers are allowed in this field, on the right of this field the currecncy that is set on the shop is displayed. If the field input is invalid, when trying to save will show the following: "The Payments by check field is invalid."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Payments by check** - An help text is displayed under the field: "Choose a fixed fee for each order placed in USD% with Payments by check.". Only numbers are allowed in this field. On the right of this field, the default currency (defined in International > Localization) is displayed. If the field is invalid and when trying to save, the following error message is displayed: "The Payments by check field is invalid."
```

 - **Payments by check** - a text below the field shows: "Choose a variable fee for each order placed in USD% with Payments by check. It will be applied on the total paid with taxes.". Only numbers are allowed in this field, on the right of the field there is a percentage sign. If the field input is invalid, when trying to save will show the following: "The Payments by check field is invalid."

> #### Call to action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Call to action
```

 - **Save** - when pressed, if the fields are input correctly, will show the following: "The settings have been successfully updated.".

> ### Average shipping fees per shipping method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Average shipping fees per shipping method
```

> Firstly a help text is displayed in this block: "Method: Indicate the percentage of your carrier margin. For example, if you charge $10 of shipping fees to your customer for each shipment, but you really pay $4 to this carrier, then you should indicate "40" in the percentage field."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following information message is displayed: "Method: Indicate the percentage of your carrier margin. For example, if you charge $10 of shipping fees to your customer for each shipment, but you really pay $4 to this carrier, then you should indicate "40" in the percentage field."
```

> When the multistore is enabled, there are checkboxes before each field of this page. The shop association block is displayed when the multistore is enabled and if several shops are configured.

Reviewer: Could you move the paragraph related to the multistore at the end of this file in a new "## Multistore" section ?

> 6 fields by default are presented below, these are the carriers that are enabled in the shop, if custom ones are added, and enabled, they will also appear in this page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2 fields with the name of the carrier and for each enabled carrier are displayed in this block:
```

>  - **My carrier** - a text below the field is presented: "For the carrier named My carrier, indicate the domestic delivery costs in percentage of the price charged to customers.". Only numbers are allowed in this field, if the field input is invalid, when trying to save shows: "The My carrier field is invalid.", on the right of the field there is a percentage sign.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **My carrier** - An help text below the field is displayed: "For the carrier named My carrier, indicate the domestic delivery costs in percentage of the price charged to customers.". On the right of this field, a percentage sign is displayed. Only numbers are allowed in this field. If the field is invalid and when trying to save, the following error message is displayed: "The My carrier field is invalid."
```

>  - **My carrier** - a text below the field is presented: "For the carrier named My carrier, indicate the domestic delivery costs in percentage of the price charged to customers.". Only numbers are allowed in this field, if the field input is invalid, when trying to save shows: "The My carrier field is invalid.", on the right of the field there is a percentage sign.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **My carrier** - An help text below the field is displayed: "For the carrier named prestashop, indicate the overseas delivery costs in percentage of the price charged to customers.". On the right of this field, a percentage sign is displayed. Only numbers are allowed in this field. If the field is invalid and when trying to save, the following error message is displayed: "The My carrier field is invalid."
```

>  - **My cheap carrier** - a text below the field is presented: "or the carrier named My cheap carrier, indicate the domestic delivery costs in percentage of the price charged to customers.". Only numbers are allowed in this field, if the field input is invalid, when trying to save shows: "The My cheap carrier field is invalid.", on the right of the field there is a percentage sign.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - **My cheap carrier** - a text below the field is presented: "or the carrier named My cheap carrier, indicate the domestic delivery costs in percentage of the price charged to customers.". Only numbers are allowed in this field, if the field input is invalid, when trying to save shows: "The My cheap carrier field is invalid.", on the right of the field there is a percentage sign.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - **My light carrier** - a text below the field is presented: "For the carrier named My light carrier, indicate the domestic delivery costs in percentage of the price charged to customers.". Only numbers are allowed in this field, if the field input is invalid, when trying to save shows: "The My light carrier field is invalid.", on the right of the field there is a percentage sign.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - **My light carrier** - a text below the field is presented: "For the carrier named My light carrier, indicate the domestic delivery costs in percentage of the price charged to customers.". Only numbers are allowed in this field, if the field input is invalid, when trying to save shows: "The My light carrier field is invalid.", on the right of the field there is a percentage sign.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> #### Call to action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Call to action
```

>  - **Save** - when pressed, if the fields are input correctly, will show the following: "The settings have been successfully updated.".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Save** - When pressed and if there is no error, the following success message is displayed: "The settings have been successfully updated." and the form is saved.
```

> ### Other settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Other settings
```

>  - **Average gross margin percentage** - a text below the field is presented: "You should calculate this percentage as follows: ((total sales revenue) - (cost of goods sold)) / (total sales revenue) * 100. This value is only used to calculate the Dashboard approximate gross margin, if you do not specify the wholesale price for each product.". Only numbers are allowed in this field, if the field input is invalid, when trying to save shows: "The Average gross margin percentage field is invalid.", on the right of the field there is a percentage sign.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Average gross margin percentage** - An help text is displayed under the field: "You should calculate this percentage as follows: ((total sales revenue) - (cost of goods sold)) / (total sales revenue) * 100. This value is only used to calculate the Dashboard approximate gross margin, if you do not specify the wholesale price for each product.". Only numbers are allowed in this field. If the field is invalid and when trying to save, the following error message is displayed: "The Average gross margin percentage field is invalid.", on the right of the field there is a percentage sign.
```

>  - **Other fees per order** - a text below the field is presented: "You should calculate this value by making the sum of all of your additional costs per order.". Only numbers are allowed in this field, if the field input is invalid, when trying to save shows: "The Other fees per order field is invalid.", on the right of the field there is a percentage sign, on the right of this field the currecncy that is set on the shop is displayed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Other fees per order** - An help text is displayed under the field: "You should calculate this value by making the sum of all of your additional costs per order.". On the right of this field, the default currency (defined in International > Localization) is displayed. Only numbers are allowed in this field. If the field is invalid and when trying to save, the following error message is displayed: "The Other fees per order field is invalid."
```

> #### Call to action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Call to action
```

>  - **Save** - when pressed, if the fields are input correctly, will show the following: "The settings have been successfully updated.".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Save** - When pressed and if there is no error, the following success message is displayed: "The settings have been successfully updated." and the form is saved.
```

 - **Payments by check** - An help text is displayed under the field: "Choose a fixed fee for each order placed in USD% with Payments by check.". Only numbers are allowed in this field. On the right of this field, the default currency (defined in International > Localization) is displayed. If the field is invalid and when trying to save, the following error message is displayed: "The Payments by check field is invalid."
 - **Payments by check** - An help text is displayed under the field: "Choose a variable fee for each order placed in USD% with Payments by check. It will be applied on the total paid with taxes.". Only numbers are allowed in this field. On the right of the field, a percentage sign is displayed. If the field is invalid and when trying to save, the following error message is displayed: "The Payments by check field is invalid."

> 

Reviewer 2: Hello,

Could you please check the case when adding more then currency. 
@matks What do you think? 
https://watch.screencastify.com/v/iBQZ57yphNag4LjeQ3Tt

Thanks,

Author: @marwachelly do you need me to check or Mathieu?

Reviewer 2: @Saimis777 Could you please check with @MatShir to identify the exact expected behavior?

Author: I believe this is correct, because it shows the currency which is selected in the shop, if you would change the default currency, and the currency in the dashboard would not change, then I believe it would be a problem no? @marwachelly

Reviewer 2: @Saimis777 
Could you please check the attached  screen recording
https://watch.screencastify.com/v/ARqa5UkfTODGzueTXrgA

I think the help message doesn't match with the currency displayed also when we delete the currency added the block added is not deleted.
Could you please check with @MatShir to identify the exact expected behavior?

Thank you,

Author: @marwachelly @MatShir 

Ok now I see what you mean, so should this be raised as a bug? How should it be written out in the specs tho?

 - **Other fees per order** - An help text is displayed under the field: "You should calculate this value by making the sum of all of your additional costs per order.". On the right of this field, the default currency (defined in International > Localization) is displayed. Only numbers are allowed in this field. If the field is invalid and when trying to save, the following error message is displayed: "The Other fees per order field is invalid."

#### Call to action

 - **Save** - When pressed and if there is no error, the following success message is displayed: "The settings have been successfully updated." and the form is saved.

## Multistore

When the multistore is enabled, there are checkboxes before each field of this page. The shop association block is displayed when the multistore is enabled and if several shops are configured.

> 👉 See the [specs of the shop association block]({{<ref "../../../multistoregeneralspecs.md#shop-association-block">}} "Shop association block") 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
👉 See the [specs of the shop association block]({{<ref "../multistoregeneralspecs.md#shop-association-block">}} "Shop association block") 
```

Reviewer: @Saimis777 I fixed the link
